+++
title = "Who I want to win the 2024 NBA finals"
date = 2024-04-10
draft = true
[taxonomies]
tags=["yap", "sports", "nba"]
categories=["sports"]
+++
     
Some think they know pain, but I can assure you they do not. At least, they do
not know a pain as true and as long-faught as the plight of a D.C. area
basketball fan. The torture that the Washington Wizards choose to inflict upon
us D.C. basketball fans year after year is unrelenting. Some have the heart;
the fortitude, to confine their thoughts soley to the Wizards, but the rest of
us find ways to cope. The thought of a Wizards championship has become so far
removed from my mind and soul that I, as a fan of the game, must consume myself
with thoughts of hopeful NBA champions devoid of my favorite team. So who do I,
as a loyal fan of a failing franchise, want to win the NBA finals? With no
horse in this race, here's my take.
   
## The Clippers
    
Okay here me out. I am as much of a Clippers hater as the next guy, but a
Clippers chip this year would be **awesome**. If the Clippers win a chip,
Russell Westbrook gets a ring, James Harden gets a ring, Paul George gets a
ring, and Kawhi gets his third. A Clippers ring would give arguably two of the
best players to never win a ring a satisfying bookmark on this chapter of their
careers. And these wouldn't be Jeremy Lin rings either (sorry Jeremy). All four
of the aformentioned players have been crucial parts to their teams success.
Kawhi and PG have been phenomenal scorers this year with 23.7 PPG and 22.8 PPG
respectively. Russ and Harden are having pretty much career-low scoring years,
but they aren't having bad seasons, they're just putting the team first by
knowing their roles. Harden is creating offense with 8.6 assists per game and
Russ is just doing Russ things (last night he scored 16 pts, 15 reb, and 15 ast
against the Suns). That being said, their path to a championship looks tough.
As of writing this, they play the Luka-led Mavericks in the first round. Let's
talk about the Mavs.
    
## The Mavericks
    
Two words: Luka Doncic. Two more words: Kyrie Irving. Let's be honest, we all
want this. We are watching a player, the likes of which we have never seen
before, enter his prime. It feels like a matter of time before his era begins.
A championship this year might signal the start. Kyrie has a ring; a ring which
he earned. But he earned that ring with LeBron, an astericks on his legacy that
motivated him to leave to the Celtics in 2017. Kyrie spent the next 6 years
entangled in controversy and failed superteams, until being traded to the
Mavericks in 2023. And this year he's looked better than ever. People said that
Luka couldn't play with another star, but Kyrie has proved them wrong this
year. A championship for the Mavs would mark the solidification of Kyrie's
legacy beyond his handles, the continuation of the Mavs' legacy beyond Dirk,
and the beginning of Luka's legacy.

<!-- ## The Nuggets -->

## The Bucks

I'll be honest, I'm a Giannis guy. He's the player that got me into the NBA and
the player I hope to see win a ring every year (after John Wall left). I wore
my Giannis Jersy to a Bucks @ Wizards game back in November. However, I haven't
been happy with their season thus far. When I heard about the Dame trade I was
estatic. I thought to myself, "Man I'll miss Jrue Holiday, but finally Giannis
gets a superstar to play besides." But Dame didn't meet our expectations and
things looked rough, but not doomed. Then they brought in Doc Rivers. This is
the worst decision you can make for a team that isn't comprised of three aging
superstars. And even though they've maintained their second seed placement, it
doesn't feel deserved. And I feel the same way about the Buck's potential
playoffrun. Playoff Dame needs to show up and Doc needs to get it together to
make a ring feel deserved. I would love to see another ring for Giannis and a
first for Dame, but anything short of that would feel undeserved.
 
## The Celtics
 
Finally. That's how a Celtics ring would feel. This team should have won a ring 
much longer ago, especially given that we have limited time til Tatum turns 19. 
Jokes aside, a Celtics ring this year would feel like a logical conclusion that 
has been long delayed. This year especially, the Celtics are just over-powered.
The addition of Porzingis and Holiday have simply stacked the deck against every other team in the East. Although it wouldn't be exciting, a Celtics ring would be fine.
