+++
title = "The Terrifying Future"
draft = true
date = 2024-06-29
[taxonomies]
tags=["yap"]
categories=["personal"]
+++

> "I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story. From the tip of every branch, like a fat purple fig, a wonderful future beckoned and winked... I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig tree, starving to death, just because I couldn't make up my mind which of the figs I would choose. I wanted each and every one of them, but choosing one meant losing all the rest, and, as I sat there, unable to decide, the figs began to wrinkle and go black, and, one by one, they plopped to the ground at my feet." 
> - Sylvia Plath, The Bell Jar

The summer before my senior year of high school has just begun and this poem by Syliva Plath has been ever-present in my mind. I am at the precipice of adulthood and I need to put serious thought into my future and what I want to do, which is terrifying. For the longest time, I thought I had it figured out: _I am good at programming at a relatively young age, I enjoy programming, programming is really fun for me. I am going to go to college and become a programmer_, which felt like a great plan- what a great plan! But then I got back into being more politically conscious, and I got back into Socialism, and I got back into learning about what's happening in Palestine right now (I am aware of the first world irony of "getting back" into caring about mass genocide), and I was left with a rotten feeling in my chest. This rotten feeling would turn into an overwhelming sickness everytime I sat down at my computer to work on a programming project or any Comp-Sci related matter. I recognized this feeling- we had danced before. It was a feeling that visited me often in the late hours of the night as I lay alone and I, for some reason, decide to confront my mortality; a feeling that demanded that I read Camus and Nietzsche; a feeling that prompted me to enroll in a philosophy course in order to search for a solution to it. As I sat at my computer, staring at the colorful letters of my terminal, I was filled with _existential dread_. I would stare at the screen and think to myself, _Why am I doing this? Why is this meaningful to me?_, and this led me to question other things: _What's meaningful to me? Why is this thing more meaningful than others? What does it mean for something to have meaning?_ 

___What is meaning?___

Over the next few weeks, I was thrown into an existential bender. I had been so sure of this plan for so long, is it really possible that it could all be wrong? This existential bender has only recently ended so now we'll move into the present tense. I've come to the conclusion that I feel this way about coding because of how I feel about Capitlism. I assosciate Capitlism with a lack of profound meaning. You work all day everyday for your entire life in order to operate the business machine that benefits a small group of people who don't even know you. Conversely, in a Socialist or Communist society, there is a sense that you are contributing to your community and bettering life for everyone. This is not to say that jobs that benefit one's community don't exist under Capitalism, but they are rarer and more difficult to survive doing under capitalism than under an alternative economic system. Programming as a proffession is especially victim to this notion. There is seldom an idea of "pro-bono" programming or a programmer worker owned co-op. Instead, programmers are seen almost as tools to corporations: replaceable, completely unspecific from their current company, and not in charge of any direction that the company might go in. To a capitalist, a programmer is a completely internal tool- which doesn't sit right with me. I consider myself somewhat gifted (I'm not an asshole, I swear), however not in the elementary school gifted kid way you might assume. While I am good at things that are usually acadamically valued, I am gifted because I was born into a high-income area with great access to education and the internet, and two loving parents. This environment has allowed me to excel at things like programming and academic fields, but also things like music, writing, and other creative fields. I have been given so many amazing opprotunities, resources, and abilities I can use to cause good in this world, how can I possibly stomach being a nameless tool to an already rich capitalist? What matters to me is that I can help other people and contribute to what I think is right. It matters to me that I fight the good fight. And while I do realize that it's possible to contribute to social change and such outside of my career, I don't think I can live with choosing a career that directly contradicts any contributions I make. I care about social change, I care about the direction the world is headed in, and programming just doesn't align with either of those. This conclusion has led me to define my first criterion for choosing a career: __Any job I choose must exist and help others outside of capitalism.__
